## How to Set Up for Your Own Datasets :wrench:
If you wish to use these workflows with your own datasets, proceed with the following steps:
1. Download the code repository and make sure the dependencies are installed. 
2. Edit `config.json`
- Edit the config file to align with the field names and data types of your datasets. A sample template is provided using the sample datasets.
- Under `datasets`
  - The key should be the dataset name. The value contains the following:
  - `numeric_fields` contains the field names that should be numeric (e.g. `float` or `int`)
  - `date_fields` contains the field names that are dates
  - `primary_key` the field name of the presumed unique identifier
  - `pre_cluster_exact_matches` (`bool` type) is `true` if records with exact matches in all fields should be pre-clustered before deduplication. 
    - Set this to `true` if there is rampant exact matches in all fields in your dataset. Otherwise, leave it at the default `false`. 
- Under `tasks`
  - The key should be in the form `<task_name>-<dataset_name>` where the `task_name` is either `dedup` or `rl`. The value contains the following:
  - `recall_train` (`float` type) is a parameter used for learning the blocking predicates. This parameter ranges from 0.0 to 1.0. See [dedupe's API](https://github.com/dedupeio/dedupe/blob/master/dedupe/api.py) for more detail. 
    - This parameter should only be decreased (e.g. set to 0.9) if there are too many blocks later on after model training. Too many blocks generated by the trained model can lead to an out of memory error during clustering.
  - `fields` contains the data types for each field. See [dedupe's variable definition documentation](https://docs.dedupe.io/en/latest/Variable-definition.html) for more detail.
3. Set up the folder structure
  - The notebooks are sensitive to the filename conventions and the folder structure because that's how they know which filepaths to read and write from. It's important to set this up.
  - Make sure you've already filled out the `datasets` section of `config.json` (filling out `tasks` section is not necessary to set up the folder structure).
  - Make sure you have the `notebooks` folder with the template notebook files.
    - The `notebooks` folder should be in the same directory as `saved_files` and the `python_scripts` folders. 
  - Run this script: `python_scripts/init_files_folders.py`. This automatically creates the necessary folders and copies the template Jupyter notebooks.
    - You may also opt to do this yourself although it may be more cumbersome.
  - Copy the raw dataset/s in the appropriate folder/s in `saved_files ` Place it under the `<dataset_name>` folder with filename `raw_data.csv`.
  - You're ready to go! Check the `notebooks` folder for the notebook templates pre-prepared for your own datasets.
